docs/Flee_Literature.md, before:

# Flee Literature

This page serves to provide definitive references for key aspects of the Flee code.

## Flee 3 paper
Accepted for publication at the Journal Of Computational Science. Please find a preprint at: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4710692

## Parallelized Flee (2) paper
Groen, D., Papadopoulou, N., Anastasiadis, P., Lawenda, M., Szustak, L., Gogolenko, S., Arabnejad, H. and Jahani, A., 2023. Large-Scale Parallelization of Human Migration Simulation. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems.
```
@article{groen2023large,
  title={Large-Scale Parallelization of Human Migration Simulation},
  author={Groen, Derek and Papadopoulou, Nikela and Anastasiadis, Petros and Lawenda, Marcin and Szustak, Lukasz and Gogolenko, Sergiy and Arabnejad, Hamid and Jahani, Alireza},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems},
  year={2023},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```

## Flee 2 paper
Suleimenova, D., Arabnejad, H., Edeling, W.N. and Groen, D., 2021. Sensitivity-driven simulation development: a case study in forced migration. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A, 379(2197), p.20200077.
```
@article{suleimenova2021sensitivity,
  title={Sensitivity-driven simulation development: a case study in forced migration},
  author={Suleimenova, Diana and Arabnejad, Hamid and Edeling, Wouter N and Groen, Derek},
  journal={Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A},
  volume={379},
  number={2197},
  pages={20200077},
  year={2021},
  publisher={The Royal Society Publishing}
}
```

## Original Flee release paper
Suleimenova, D., Bell, D. and Groen, D., 2017. A generalized simulation development approach for predicting refugee destinations. Scientific reports, 7(1), p.13377.
```
@article{suleimenova2017generalized,
  title={A generalized simulation development approach for predicting refugee destinations},
  author={Suleimenova, Diana and Bell, David and Groen, Derek},
  journal={Scientific reports},
  volume={7},
  number={1},
  pages={13377},
  year={2017},
  publisher={Nature Publishing Group UK London}
}
```

## Initial validation and model concept paper
Groen, D., 2016. Simulating refugee movements: Where would you go?. Procedia Computer Science, 80, pp.2251-2255.
```
@article{groen2016simulating,
  title={Simulating refugee movements: Where would you go?},
  author={Groen, Derek},
  journal={Procedia Computer Science},
  volume={80},
  pages={2251--2255},
  year={2016},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```

## Main (initial) FabFlee paper
Suleimenova, D. and Groen, D., 2020. How Policy Decisions Affect Refugee Journeys in South Sudan: A Study Using Automated Ensemble Simulations. Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation, 23(1).
```
@article{suleimenova2020policy,
  title={How Policy Decisions Affect Refugee Journeys in South Sudan: A Study Using Automated Ensemble Simulations},
  author={Suleimenova, Diana and Groen, Derek},
  journal={Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation},
  volume={23},
  number={1},
  year={2020},
  publisher={JASSS}
}
```

Commit message:

Added Food reference page and updated Flee3 paper entry in literature.

docs/Flee_Literature.md, after:

# Flee Literature

This page serves to provide definitive references for key aspects of the Flee code.

## Flee 3 paper
Ghorbani, M., Suleimenova, D., Jahani, A., Saha, A., Xue, Y., Mintram, K., Anagnostou, A., Tas, A., Low, W., Taylor, S.J. and Groen, D., 2024. Flee 3: Flexible agent-based simulation for forced migration. Journal of Computational Science, 81, p.102371.
```
@article{ghorbani2024flee,
  title={Flee 3: Flexible agent-based simulation for forced migration},
  author={Ghorbani, Maziar and Suleimenova, Diana and Jahani, Alireza and Saha, Arindam and Xue, Yani and Mintram, Kate and Anagnostou, Anastasia and Tas, Auke and Low, William and Taylor, Simon JE and others},
  journal={Journal of Computational Science},
  volume={81},
  pages={102371},
  year={2024},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```

## Parallelized Flee (2) paper
Groen, D., Papadopoulou, N., Anastasiadis, P., Lawenda, M., Szustak, L., Gogolenko, S., Arabnejad, H. and Jahani, A., 2023. Large-Scale Parallelization of Human Migration Simulation. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems.
```
@article{groen2023large,
  title={Large-Scale Parallelization of Human Migration Simulation},
  author={Groen, Derek and Papadopoulou, Nikela and Anastasiadis, Petros and Lawenda, Marcin and Szustak, Lukasz and Gogolenko, Sergiy and Arabnejad, Hamid and Jahani, Alireza},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems},
  year={2023},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```

## Flee 2 paper
Suleimenova, D., Arabnejad, H., Edeling, W.N. and Groen, D., 2021. Sensitivity-driven simulation development: a case study in forced migration. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A, 379(2197), p.20200077.
```
@article{suleimenova2021sensitivity,
  title={Sensitivity-driven simulation development: a case study in forced migration},
  author={Suleimenova, Diana and Arabnejad, Hamid and Edeling, Wouter N and Groen, Derek},
  journal={Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A},
  volume={379},
  number={2197},
  pages={20200077},
  year={2021},
  publisher={The Royal Society Publishing}
}
```

## Original Flee release paper
Suleimenova, D., Bell, D. and Groen, D., 2017. A generalized simulation development approach for predicting refugee destinations. Scientific reports, 7(1), p.13377.
```
@article{suleimenova2017generalized,
  title={A generalized simulation development approach for predicting refugee destinations},
  author={Suleimenova, Diana and Bell, David and Groen, Derek},
  journal={Scientific reports},
  volume={7},
  number={1},
  pages={13377},
  year={2017},
  publisher={Nature Publishing Group UK London}
}
```

## Initial validation and model concept paper
Groen, D., 2016. Simulating refugee movements: Where would you go?. Procedia Computer Science, 80, pp.2251-2255.
```
@article{groen2016simulating,
  title={Simulating refugee movements: Where would you go?},
  author={Groen, Derek},
  journal={Procedia Computer Science},
  volume={80},
  pages={2251--2255},
  year={2016},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```

## Main (initial) FabFlee paper
Suleimenova, D. and Groen, D., 2020. How Policy Decisions Affect Refugee Journeys in South Sudan: A Study Using Automated Ensemble Simulations. Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation, 23(1).
```
@article{suleimenova2020policy,
  title={How Policy Decisions Affect Refugee Journeys in South Sudan: A Study Using Automated Ensemble Simulations},
  author={Suleimenova, Diana and Groen, Derek},
  journal={Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation},
  volume={23},
  number={1},
  year={2020},
  publisher={JASSS}
}
```
